Clarify fixture execution order and provide visual aids (#7381)
pytest-dev/pytest: doc/en/fixture.rst

.. _`@pytest.fixture`:
.. _`pytest.fixture`:

What fixtures are
-----------------

Before we dive into what fixtures are, let's first look at what a test is.

In the simplest terms, a test is meant to look at the result of a particular
"behavior", and make sure that result aligns with what you would expect.

> Behavior is not something that can be empirically measured, which is why writing

Author: I see where you're coming from, and agree.

I'm thinking of something like logging in. Someone may want to test logging in, but there's no means of saying `assert user.logged_in is True` and have that statement be 100% correct. Instead, they may look at how the system responds to the context of a proper login request bring sent. They may check that they now have a cookie, or that they can access a resource only a logged in user should be able to access. But these still don't tell them if the user is logged in, because being logged in is an abstract concept we've attached to the way we want the code to behave given certain conditions.

Perhaps it would be better to say something like this?

> The intent or meaning behind how the state behaves is not something that can be empirically measured, which is why writing tests can be challenging.

We can make a fixture an autouse fixture by passing in ``autouse=True`` to the
fixture's decorator. Here's a simple example for how they can be used:

.. code-block:: python

    # contents of test_append.py
    import pytest

    @pytest.fixture
    def first_entry():
        return "a"

    @pytest.fixture
    def order(first_entry):
        return []

    @pytest.fixture(autouse=True)
    def append_first(order, first_entry):
        return order.append(first_entry)

    def test_string_only(order, first_entry):
        assert order == [first_entry]

    def test_string_and_int(order, first_entry):
        order.append(2)
        assert order == [first_entry, 2]

In this example, the ``append_first`` fixture is an autouse fixture. Because it
happens automatically, both tests are affected by it, even though neither test
**requested** it. That doesn't mean they *can't* be **requested** though; just
that it isn't *necessary*.

.. _smtpshared:

Scope: sharing fixtures across classes, modules, packages or session
--------------------------------------------------------------------

.. regendoc:wipe

Fixtures requiring network access depend on connectivity and are

> usually time-expensive to create.  Extending the previous example, we

Reviewer: As written this is the first mention of `smtp_connection`.

can add a ``scope="module"`` parameter to the

> :py:func:`@pytest.fixture <_pytest.python.fixture>` invocation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:py:func:`@pytest.fixture <pytest.fixture>` invocation
```

**arrange** step only providing the context. **Behavior** exists between **act**
and **assert**.

.. note::

    For functional programming, the **act** will still be a function call, but
    the **assert** will be looking at the output of that function, rather than
    the resulting state. But fixtures can still be used for this if desired.

Back to fixtures
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

"Fixtures", in the literal sense, are each of the **arrange** steps and data. They're
everything that test needs to do it's thing.

In pytest, "fixtures" are functions you define that serve this purpose. But they
don't have to be limited to just the **arrange** steps. They can provide the
**act** step, as well, and this can be a powerful technique for designing more
complex tests, especially given how pytest's fixture system works. But we'll get
into that further down.

We can tell pytest that a particular function is a fixture by deocrating it with
:py:func:`@pytest.fixture <_pytest.python.fixture>`. Here's a simple example of
what a fixture in pytest might look like:

.. code-block:: python

    import pytest

    @pytest.fixture

>     def order():

Author: I agree, having some recognizable meaning attached can help make it clear what should happen when. However, I think the SMTP stuff might throw off some folks (e.g. I knew what SMTP was, but didn't know about `HELO`/`EHLO`). What about something like this?

```python
 import pytest

from google import GmailClient  # Note: not a real library

@pytest.fixture
def login_response():
    return GmailClient("myusername", "mypassword")

def test_login_response_status_code(login_response):
    # status code of 200 means a successful login
    assert login_response.status_code == 200
```

>     def order():

Reviewer 2: > What about something like this?

Seems good, the problem however is that we actually *run* those examples to generate correct output (using `tox -e regen`), so those examples need to be executable.

I think we can change the examples to use something:

1. Is from the standard-library.
2. Runs in-memory, without needing to change things on disk.
3. Doesn't need servers or other external resources.

Some thoughts come to mind: testing `json` encoding/decoding, testing something from the `collections` module (`Counter` for example), `datetime`, `fractions`, etc.

>     def order():

Author: @nicoddemus @bluetech ok, I updated it a bit, but haven't fleshed it out for the rest of the doc, and wanted to get your feedback. I couldn't think of any examples that both could be relatable and also wouldn't run the risk of making a readers eyes glaze over, so I made some `Fruit` and `FruitSalad` examples. I've been thinking that food related stuff could be used in the examples, because cooking involves branching paths and sequential steps (and even some async stuff if we want to go that route), so it seemed fitting. Let me know what you think!

>     def order():

Reviewer 2: Thanks @SalmonMode, I think those are OK to read and understand.

        return list()

Tests don't have to be limited to a single fixture, either. They can depend on
as many fixtures as you want, and fixtures can use other fixtures, as well. This
is where pytest's fixture system really shines.

> Don't be afraid to break things up and have tons of fixtures. Fixtures in pytest

Author: Hmmmm yeah, I've seen a lot of tests where several steps are shoved into one fixture, which caused an increase in complexity and lowered changeability in general.

What if we just changed it to this?

> Don't be afraid to break things up if it makes things cleaner.

> Don't be afraid to break things up and have tons of fixtures. Fixtures in pytest

Reviewer 2: Sounds great! 👍

are meant to be modular and flexible. The more, the merrier!

"Requesting" fixtures
---------------------

So fixtures are how we *prepare* for a test, but how do we tell pytest what
tests and fixtures need which fixtures?

> At a basic level, pytest depends on a test to tell it what fixtures it needs, so

Author: Much simpler! I like it.

> At a basic level, pytest depends on a test to tell it what fixtures it needs, so

Reviewer 2: You mean https://github.com/pytest-dev/pytest/pull/7381/files#discussion_r484109989 I assume. 👍

we have to build that information into the test itself. We have to make the test
"**request**" the fixtures it needs to depend on, and to do this, we have to
list those fixtures as parameters in the test function's "signature" (which is
the ``def test_something(blah, stuff, more):`` line).

When pytest goes to run a test, it looks at the parameters in that test
function's signature, and then searches for fixtures that have the same names as
those parameters. Once pytest finds them, it runs those fixtures, captures what
they returned (if anything), and passes those objects into the test function as
arguments.

Quick example
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code-block:: python

>     # contents of test_append.py

Author: Oh yikes, haha that explains a few things. Thanks!

    import pytest

    # Arrange
    @pytest.fixture
    def order():
        return ["a"]

    def test_string(order):
        # Act
        order.append("b")

        # Assert
        assert order == ["a", "b"]

In this example, ``test_string`` "**requests**" ``order`` (i.e.
``def test_string(order):``), and when pytest sees this, it will execute
``order`` and pass the object it returns into the test function. Here's roughly
what's happening if we were to do it by hand:

.. code-block:: python

    def order():
        return ["a"]

    def test_string(order):

>         # Act

Author: Good catch. I'll put it in the order definition, as that's where the step's logic is.

        order.append("b")

        # Assert
        assert order == ["a", "b"]

    the_list = order()

    test_string(order=the_list)

Fixtures can **request** other fixtures
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

One of pytest's greatest strengths is its extremely flexible fixture system. It
allows us to boil down complex requirements for tests into more simple and
organized functions, where we only need to have each one describe the things
they are dependent on. We'll get more into this further down, but for now,
here's a quick example to demonstrate how fixtures can use other fixtures:

.. code-block:: python

    # contents of test_append.py

>     import pytest

Reviewer 2: Actually seems like we plan to change this after all: https://github.com/pytest-dev/pytest/pull/7381/files#discussion_r486874445

    # Arrange
    @pytest.fixture
    def first_entry():
        return "a"

    # Arrange
    @pytest.fixture
    def order(first_entry):
        return [first_entry]

    def test_string(order):
        # Act
        order.append("b")

        # Assert
        assert order == ["a", "b"]

Notice that this is the same example from above, but very little changed. The
fixtures in pytest **request** fixtures just like tests. All the same
**requesting** rules apply to fixtures that do for tests. Here's how this
example would work if we did it by hand:

> .. code-block:: python

Author: Thanks! I find this kind of thing helps me a lot when learning something new 😁

    import pytest

    # Arrange
    @pytest.fixture
    def first_entry():
        return "a"

    # Arrange
    @pytest.fixture
    def second_entry():
        return 2

    # Arrange
    @pytest.fixture
    def order(first_entry, second_entry):
        return [first_entry, second_entry]

    # Arrange
    @pytest.fixture
    def expected_list():
        return ["a", 2, 3.0]

    def test_string(order, expected_list):
        # Act
        order.append(3.0)

        # Assert
        assert order == expected_list

Fixtures can be **requested** more than once per test (return values are cached)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Fixtures can also be **requested** more than once during the same test, and
pytest won't execute them again for that test. This means we can **request**
fixtures in multiple fixtures that are dependent on them (and even again in the
test itself) without those fixtures being executed more than once.

.. code-block:: python

    # contents of test_append.py
    import pytest

    # Arrange
    @pytest.fixture
    def first_entry():
        return "a"

    # Arrange
    @pytest.fixture

>     def order(first_entry):

Author: 🙏

        return []

    # Act
    @pytest.fixture
    def append_first(order, first_entry):
        return order.append(first_entry)

    def test_string_only(append_first, order, first_entry):
        # Assert
        assert order == [first_entry]

If a **requested** fixture was executed once for every time it was **requested**
during a test, then this test would fail because both ``append_first`` and
``test_string_only`` would see ``order`` as an empty list (i.e. ``[]``), but
since the return value of ``order`` was cached (along with any side effects
executing it may have had) after the first time it was called, both the test and
``append_first`` were referencing the same object, and the test saw the effect
``append_first`` had on that object.

.. _`autouse`:
.. _`autouse fixtures`:

Autouse fixtures (fixtures you don't have to request)
-----------------------------------------------------

Sometimes you may want to have a fixture (or even several) that you know all
your tests will depend on. "Autouse" fixtures are a convenient way to make all

> tests that can reference them automatically **request** them. This can cut out a

Author: Sounds good. And yeah, this'll be covered later anyway

.. _`conftest.py`:
.. _`conftest`:

Fixture availabiility
---------------------

Fixture availability is determined from the perspective of the test. A fixture

> is only available for tests to request if they are in the scope that fixture is

Author: I see the distinction you're mentioning, but in this case, I think it's helpful for the user's mental model to have it be used both ways. The scopes draw boundaries between where fixtures can be used/re-used as well as where they can be defined; it's two sides of the same coin. The visual aides I put in are meant to help illustrate this.

defined in. If a fixture is defined inside a class, it can only be requested by
tests inside that class. But if a fixture is defined inside the global scope of
the module, than every test in that module, even if it's defined inside a class,
can request it.

> Similarly, a test can also only be affected by an autouse fixture if that test

Author: The concept of autouse fixtures has a few nuances, and the implications (both positive and potentially negative) of it may not be immediately apparent. I wanted to explicitly mention this here and provide a link to the order section for them, as it touches on this topic in more details

I don't think it not being mentioned yet is a problem necessarily, but perhaps the autouse fixture section should be moved above this section?

> Similarly, a test can also only be affected by an autouse fixture if that test

Reviewer 2: I think moving autouse above this would solve it. 👍

is in the same scope that autouse fixture is defined in (see
:ref:`autouse order`).

A fixture can also request any other fixture, no matter where it's defined, so
long as the test requesting them can see all fixtures involved.

> For example, here's a test file with a fixture (``outer``) that requests a

Author: The reason for having two classes is to demonstrate that each test class has its own `inner` fixture, and aren't pulling it from the other class' scope. I also didn't want to involve anything about overriding fixtures just yet because that wasn't what this part was about, and there's a section for that already. In order for these tests to pass, both classes must have their own `inner` fixture defined.

Regarding `order`, I pulled this from another example in the docs. I think it's ideal because it demonstrates an actual implication for the tests, whereas prints don't impact the tests. That said, actually _seeing_ it may be beneficial as well. Maybe I should add a note about running it with `--setup-show/plan`?

fixture (``inner``) from a scope it wasn't defined in:

.. literalinclude:: example/fixtures/test_fixtures_request_different_scope.py

From the tests' perspectives, they have no problem seeing each of the fixtures
they're dependent on:

.. image:: example/fixtures/test_fixtures_request_different_scope.svg
    :align: center

> So when they run, ``outer`` will have no problem finding ``inner``, because

Author: I'm sure many users will read this from top to bottom once through, or maybe even a few times. But I partially wrote this from the perspective of someone who is coming back to the docs to find out the details of some behavior/system or to get ideas about how to structure their tests/fixtures.

I think the only reason this isn't something the user will likely encounter, is because this behavior isn't spelled out in the docs. Some users may hold the belief that if a fixture isn't available from the perspective of the fixture requesting it, it won't work. But the general idea is somewhat common. A similar concept is in Python itself with the `NotImplementedError` exception.

But I agree that this may be stepping up things a little too quickly provided what came before it. I think there should be better descriptions of the basics of the fixture system above it. The concept of "requesting" a fixture doesn't seem to be covered, and things are discussed in a more technical sense at the beginning of the page (e.g. `Test functions can receive fixture objects by naming them as an input argument`). I think going over those sorts of concepts, and terminology first with very simple examples can prime them for the behavior described in this part.

pytest searched from the tests' perspectives.

.. note:
    The scope a fixture is defined in has no bearing on the order it will be

>     instantiated in.

Author: Hmmm I think trying to sum up how the order is controlled here might leave some ambiguity. How do you feel about something like this?

```
instantiated in: the order is mandated by the logic described :ref:`here <fixture order>`.
```

>     instantiated in.

Reviewer 2: Good idea. 👍

    :ref:`here <fixture order>`.

``conftest.py``: sharing fixtures across multiple files
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The ``conftest.py`` file serves as a means of providing fixtures for an entire
folder. Any fixture defined in a ``conftest.py`` can be used by any test
in that package without needing to import them (pytest will automatically
discover them).

> You can have multiple nested folders/packages containing your tests, and each

Author: 👍

> can have its own ``conftest.py`` with its own fixtures, adding on to (and/or

Author: Good point! I'll take that bit out

            import pytest

            @pytest.fixture
            def innermost(order):
                order.append("innermost top")

            def test_order(order, top):
                assert order == ["innermost top", "top"]

        subpackage/
            __init__.py

            conftest.py
                # content of tests/subpackage/conftest.py
                import pytest

                @pytest.fixture
                def mid(order):
                    order.append("mid subpackage")

            test_subpackage.py
                # content of tests/subpackage/test_subpackage.py
                import pytest

                @pytest.fixture
                def innermost(order, mid):
                    order.append("innermost subpackage")

                def test_order(order, top):
                    assert order == ["mid subpackage", "innermost subpackage", "top"]

The boundaries of the scopes can be visualized like this:

.. image:: example/fixtures/fixture_availability.svg
    :align: center

The folders become their own sort of scope where fixtures that are defined in a
``conftest.py`` file in that folder become available for that whole scope.

> Tests are allowed to search upward (stepping outside a circle) for fixtures, but

Author: Thanks! 😁

can never go down (stepping inside a circle) to continue their search. So
``tests/subpackage/test_subpackage.py::test_order`` would be able to find the
``innermost`` fixture defined in ``tests/subpackage/test_subpackage.py``, but
the one defined in ``tests/test_top.py`` would be unavailable to it because it
would have to step down a level (step inside a circle) to find it.

> The first fixture the test finds is the one that will be used, so

Author: Right, I didn't want to provide details about overriding fixtures just yet, as there was already a section for that, and trying to demonstrate overriding here would have complicated it a bit. This was about showing which fixtures each test can reference and which they can't.

:ref:`fixtures can be overriden <override fixtures>` if you need to change or
extend what one does for a particular scope.

You can also use the ``conftest.py`` file to implement
:ref:`local per-directory plugins <conftest.py plugins>`.

Fixtures from third-party plugins
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Fixtures don't have to be defined in this structure to be available for tests,
though. They can also be provided by third-party plugins that are installed, and
this is how many pytest plugins operate. As long as those plugins are installed,
the fixtures they provide can be requested from anywhere in your test suite.

Because they're provided from outside the structure of your test suite,
third-party plugins don't really provide a scope like `conftest.py` files and

> the folders in your test suite do. As a result, pytest will search for fixtures

Author: This isn't about which fixture gets used or the order they're used in. This is just meant to explain availability.

> the folders in your test suite do. As a result, when running a test, pytest

Author: Yeah, that's much clearer, and also more concise!

defined in plugins *last*.

For example, given the following file structure:

::

    tests/
        __init__.py

        conftest.py
            # content of tests/conftest.py
            import pytest

            @pytest.fixture
            def order():
                return []

        subpackage/
            __init__.py

            conftest.py
                # content of tests/subpackage/conftest.py
                import pytest

                @pytest.fixture(autouse=True)
                def mid(order, b_fix):
                    order.append("mid subpackage")

            test_subpackage.py
                # content of tests/subpackage/test_subpackage.py
                import pytest

                @pytest.fixture
                def inner(order, mid, a_fix):
                    order.append("inner subpackage")

                def test_order(order, inner):
                    assert order == ["b_fix", "mid subpackage", "a_fix", "inner subpackage"]

If ``plugin_a`` is installed and provides the fixture ``a_fix``, and
``plugin_b`` is installed and provides the fixture ``b_fix``, then this is what

> the test's search for fixtures would look like:

Author: Good idea! I'm trying to keep the SVGs a little compact so the text stays visible, but I'll toy around with it a little to see how I can do this consistently for all the availability examples (I'm thinking of using a mask to create a buffer around the number so I can have it on the circle stroke itself, e.g. `---- 3 ----`)

    def docker_container():
        yield spawn_container()

.. _`fixture order`:

Fixture instantiation order
---------------------------

When pytest wants to execute a test, once it knows what fixtures will be
executed, it has to figure out the order they'll be executed in. To do this, it
considers 3 factors:

1. scope
2. dependencies

> 3. autouse

Reviewer: Here again, autouse hasn't been described yet (I see in this case this is a preexisting issue)

Author: I mentioned it above, but perhaps the description of what autouse fixtures are should be moved up?

Names of fixtures or tests, where they're defined, the order they're defined in,
and the order fixtures are requested in have no bearing on execution order

> beyond coincidense. While pytest will try to make sure coincidenses like these

Reviewer: ```suggestion
beyond coincidence. While pytest will try to make sure coincidences like these
```

stay consistent from run to run, it's not something that should be depended on.
If you want to control the order, it's safest to rely on these 3 things and make
sure dependencies are clearly established.

Higher-scoped fixtures are executed first
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Within a function request for fixtures, those of higher-scopes (such as
``session``) are executed before lower-scoped fixtures (such as ``function`` or
``class``).

Here's an example:

.. literalinclude:: example/fixtures/test_fixtures_order_scope.py

The test will pass because the larger scoped fixtures are executing first.

The order breaks down to this:

.. image:: example/fixtures/test_fixtures_order_scope.svg
    :align: center

Fixtures of the same order execute based on dependencies
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> If a fixture is requested by either a fixture or a test, it means the requested

Reviewer: I think we can leave out "or a test" here as that is pretty obvious I hope (not using the word lightly...).

Then we can simplify the language a bit by avoiding the passive voice. Instead of this paragraph and the next:

```
When a fixture requests another fixture, the other fixture is executed first. 
So if fixture ``a`` requests fixture ``b``, fixture ``b`` will execute first,
because ``a`` depends on ``b`` and can't operate without it. Even if ``a``
doesn't need the result of ``b``, it can still request ``b`` if it needs to make
sure it is executed after ``b``.
```

Author: Looks good! I'll modify it

could go with any one of those interpretations at any point.

For example, if ``d`` didn't request ``c``, i.e.the graph would look like this:

.. image:: example/fixtures/test_fixtures_order_dependencies_unclear.svg
    :align: center

Because nothing requested ``c`` other than ``g``, and ``g`` also requests ``f``,
it's now unclear if ``c`` should go before/after ``f``, ``e``, or ``d``. The
only rules that were set for ``c`` is that it must execute after ``b`` and
before ``g``.

Pytest doesn't know where ``c`` should go in the case, so it should be assumed
that it could go anywhere between ``g`` and ``b``.

This isn't necessarily bad, but it's something to keep in mind. If the order
they execute in could affect the behavior a test is targetting, or could
otherwise influence the result of a test, then the order should be defined
explicitely in a way that allows pytest to linearize/"flatten" that order.

.. _`autouse order`:

Autouse fixtures are executed first within their scope
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Autouse fixtures are assumed to apply to every test that could reference them,

> so they are executed first of all the fixtures in that scope. Fixtures that are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
so they are executed before other fixtures in that scope. Fixtures that are
```

        yield spawn_container()

Fixture instantiation order
---------------------------

When pytest wants to execute a test, once it knows what fixtures will be
executed, it has to figure out the order they'll be executed in. To do this, it
considers 3 factors:

> 1. scope

Author: Aha! Good catch!

that the **exactly same** ``smtp_connection`` object was passed into the
two test functions because pytest shows the incoming argument values in the
traceback.  As a result, the two test functions using ``smtp_connection`` run
as quick as a single one because they reuse the same instance.

If you decide that you rather want to have a session-scoped ``smtp_connection``
instance, you can simply declare it:

.. code-block:: python

    @pytest.fixture(scope="session")
    def smtp_connection():
        # the returned fixture value will be shared for
        # all tests requesting it
        ...

Fixture scopes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Fixtures are created when first requested by a test, and are destroyed based on their ``scope``:

* ``function``: the default scope, the fixture is destroyed at the end of the test.
* ``class``: the fixture is destroyed during teardown of the last test in the class.
* ``module``: the fixture is destroyed during teardown of the last test in the module.
* ``package``: the fixture is destroyed during teardown of the last test in the package.
* ``session``: the fixture is destroyed at the end of the test session.

.. note::

>     Pytest only caches one instance of a fixture at a time, which

Reviewer: Hmm does this mean parametrized fixtures effectively negate scope?

Author: In some sense, I'd say so. The scope still acts as a bubble around the fixtures inside it, but parameterizing creates additional bubbles within that it, one for each parameter set. Sort of like sub-scopes.

I thought I added a bit to clarify how that works, but looks like I didn't. I'll put in some stuff for this today.

keyword arguments - ``fixture_name`` as a string and ``config`` with a configuration object.

This can be especially useful when dealing with fixtures that need time for setup, like spawning
a docker container. You can use the command-line argument to control the scope of the spawned
containers for different environments. See the example below.

.. code-block:: python

    def determine_scope(fixture_name, config):
        if config.getoption("--keep-containers", None):
            return "session"
        return "function"

    @pytest.fixture(scope=determine_scope)
    def docker_container():
        yield spawn_container()

Fixture errors
--------------

pytest does its best to put all the fixtures for a given test in a linear order
so that it can see which fixture happens first, second, third, and so on. If an
earlier fixture has a problem, though, and raises an exception, pytest will stop
executing fixtures for that test and mark the test as having an error.

When a test is marked as having an error, it doesn't mean the test failed,
though. It just means the test couldn't even be attempted because one of the

> things its dependent on had a problem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
things it depends on had a problem.
```

    @pytest.fixture(autouse=True)
    def append_third(order, append_second):
        order += [3]

    def test_order(order):
        assert order == [1, 2, 3]

If, for whatever reason, ``order.append(1)`` had a bug and it raises an exception,
we wouldn't be able to know if ``order.extend([2])`` or ``order += [3]`` would
also have problems. After ``append_first`` throws an exception, pytest won't run
any more fixtures for ``test_order``, and it won't even try to run
``test_order`` itself. The only things that would've run would be ``order`` and
``append_first``.

.. _`finalization`:

Teardown/Cleanup (AKA Fixture finalization)
-------------------------------------------

When we run our tests, we'll want to make sure they clean up after themselves so
they don't mess with any other tests (and also so that we don't leave behind a
mountain of test data to bloat the system). Fixtures in pytest offer a very
useful teardown system, which allows us to define the specific steps necessary
for each fixture to clean up after itself.

This system can be leveraged in two ways.

.. _`yield fixtures`:

1. ``yield`` fixtures (recommended)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> "Yield" fixtures are those that ``yield`` instead of ``return``. With these

Reviewer: ```suggestion
"Yield" fixtures ``yield`` instead of ``return``. With these
```

fixtures, we can run some code and pass an object back to the requesting
fixture/test, just like with the other fixtures. The only differences are:

1. ``return`` is swapped out for ``yield``.
2. Any teardown code for that fixture is placed *after* the ``yield``.

> pytest does its best to put all the fixtures for a given test in a linear order

Reviewer: This sentence is repetitive with the one in the `Fixture errors` section.

so that it can see which fixture happens first, second, third, and so on. Once
this is done, pytest will run each fixture up until it returns or yields, and
then move on to the next fixture in the list to do the same thing.

Once the test is finished, pytest will go back down the list of fixtures, but in
the *reverse order*, taking each one that yielded, and running the code inside
it that was *after* the ``yield`` statement.

As a simple example, let's say we want to test sending email from one user to
another. We'll have to first make each user, then send the email from one user
to the other, and finally assert that the other user received that message in
their inbox. If we want to clean up after the test runs, we'll likely have to
make sure the other user's mailbox is emptied before deleting that user,
otherwise the system may complain.

Here's what that might look like:

.. code-block:: python

    import pytest

    from emaillib import Email, MailAdminClient

    @pytest.fixture
    def mail_admin():
        return MailAdminClient()

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    @pytest.fixture
    def sending_user(mail_admin):
        user = mail_admin.create_user()
        yield user
        admin_client.delete_user(user)

    @pytest.fixture
    def receiving_user(mail_admin):
        user = mail_admin.create_user()
        yield user
        admin_client.delete_user(user)

>     def test_email_received(receiving_user, email):

Reviewer: I don't see an `email` fixture defined. And `sending_user` is used without being requested.

Reviewer 2: Btw: if we see other examples in the docs, we can see `# content of XXX.py`: that's not only informative, but is actually used by [regendoc](https://github.com/pytest-dev/regendoc/) to run that example. Also blocks that start with `$` are considered shell commands, and the output is appended to the text below it.

One can use `tox -e regen` locally to get that output updated.

(just like we would request another fixture) in the fixture we need to add
teardown code for, and then pass a callable, containing that teardown code, to
its ``addfinalizer`` method.

We have to be careful though, because pytest will run that finalizer once it's
been added, even if that fixture raises an exception after adding the finalizer.
So to make sure we don't run the finalizer code when we wouldn't need to, we
would only add the finalizer once the fixture would have done something that
we'd need to teardown.

Here's how the previous example would look using the ``addfinalizer`` method:

.. code-block:: python

    import pytest

    from emaillib import Email, MailAdminClient

    @pytest.fixture
    def mail_admin():
        return MailAdminClient()

    @pytest.fixture
    def sending_user(mail_admin):
        user = mail_admin.create_user()
        yield user
        admin_client.delete_user(user)

    @pytest.fixture
    def receiving_user(mail_admin, request):
        user = mail_admin.create_user()

        def delete_user():
            admin_client.delete_user(user)

        request.addfinalizer(delete_user)
        return user

    @pytest.fixture

>     def email(sending_user, receiving_user, email, request):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    def email(sending_user, receiving_user, request):
```

        _email = Email(subject="Hey!", body="How's it going?")
        sending_user.send_email(_email, receiving_user)

        def empty_mailbox():
            receiving_user.delete_email(_email)

        request.addfinalizer(empty_mailbox)
        return _email

    def test_email_received(receiving_user, email):
        assert email in receiving_user.inbox

> It's a bit longer that the normal yield fixtures and a bit more complex, but it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's a bit longer than yield fixtures and a bit more complex, but it
```

keyword arguments - ``fixture_name`` as a string and ``config`` with a configuration object.

This can be especially useful when dealing with fixtures that need time for setup, like spawning
a docker container. You can use the command-line argument to control the scope of the spawned
containers for different environments. See the example below.

.. code-block:: python

    def determine_scope(fixture_name, config):
        if config.getoption("--keep-containers", None):
            return "session"
        return "function"

    @pytest.fixture(scope=determine_scope)
    def docker_container():
        yield spawn_container()

Fixture Errors
--------------

pytest does its best to put all the fixtures for a given test in a linear order
so that it can see which fixture happens first, second, third, and so on. If an
earlier fixture has a problem, though, and raises an exception, pytest will stop
executing fixtures for that test and mark the test as having an error.

When a test is marked as having an error, it doesn't mean the test failed,
though. It just means the test couldn't even be attempted because one of the

> things its dependent on had a problem. This does mean that the test isn't in

Author: In agree. I'll take it out.

Once the test is finished, pytest will go back down the list of fixtures, but in
the *reverse order*, taking each one that yielded, and running the code inside
it that was *after* the ``yield`` statement.

As a simple example, let's say we want to test sending email from one user to
another. We'll have to first make each user, then send the email from one user
to the other, and finally assert that the other user received that message in
their inbox. If we want to clean up after the test runs, we'll likely have to
make sure the other user's mailbox is emptied before deleting that user,
otherwise the system may complain.

Here's what that might look like:

.. code-block:: python

    import pytest

    from emaillib import Email, MailAdminClient

    @pytest.fixture
    def mail_admin():
        return MailAdminClient()

    @pytest.fixture
    def sending_user(mail_admin):
        user = mail_admin.create_user()
        yield user
        admin_client.delete_user(user)

    @pytest.fixture
    def receiving_user(mail_admin):
        user = mail_admin.create_user()
        yield user
        admin_client.delete_user(user)

    @pytest.fixture

>     def email(sending_user, receiving_user, email):

Author: This was partially to keep it consistent with the approach where a test class is used to represent the end state after the act, and each test method can assert something about that state. In order for that approach to work, the act had to be done in a fixture. But I also didn't want to assume referential integrity in the DB.

Granted, this is documentation for a test framework, not an imaginary email client, so no reason to over-engineer it 😂 

I'll go ahead and swap it around.

>     def email(sending_user, receiving_user, email):

Author: Hmmm after re-reading it, this wouldn't allow for demonstrating the bit about them tearing down in the reverse order because there's no clear setup order, beyond the order the users were requested by the test, but I'd rather not depend on that. 

Maybe we should get rid of the reverse order stuff above? But IMO, that's one of the core features of yield fixtures. What do you think?

    def test_name_on_landing_page_after_login(landing_page, user):
        assert landing_page.header == f"Welcome, {user.name}!"

The way the dependencies are laid out means it's unclear if the ``user`` fixture
would execute before the ``driver`` fixture. But that's ok, because those are
atomic operations, and so it doesn't matter which one runs first because the
sequence of events for the test is still `linearizable`_. But what *does* matter
is that, no matter which one runs first, if the one raises an exception while
the other would not have, neither will have left anything behind. If ``driver``
executes before ``user``, and ``user`` raises an exception, the driver will
still quit, and the user was never made. And if ``driver`` was the one to raise
the exception, then the driver would never have been started and the user would
never have been made.

.. note:

    While the ``user`` fixture doesn't *actually* need to happen before the
    ``driver`` fixture, if we made ``driver`` request ``user``, it might save
    some time in the event that making the user raises an exception, since it
    won't bother trying to start the driver, which is a fairly expensive
    operation.

> Fixtures: a prime example of dependency injection

Author: You got it!

So if fixture ``a`` is autouse and fixture ``b`` is not, but fixture ``a``
requests fixture ``b``, then fixture ``b`` will effectively be an autouse
fixture as well, but only for the tests that ``a`` applies to.

In the last example, the graph became unclear if ``d`` didn't request ``c``. But
if ``c`` was autouse, then ``b`` and ``a`` would effectively also be autouse
because ``c`` depends on them. As a result, they would all be shifted above
non-autouse fixtures within that scope.

So if the test file looked like this:

.. literalinclude:: example/fixtures/test_fixtures_order_autouse.py

the graph would look like this:

.. image:: example/fixtures/test_fixtures_order_autouse.svg
    :align: center

Because ``c`` can now be put above ``d`` in the graph, pytest can once again
linearize the graph to this:

In this example, ``c`` makes ``b`` and ``a`` effectively autouse fixtures as
well.

Be careful with autouse, though, as an autouse fixture will automatically
execute for every test that can reach it, even if they don't request it. For
example, consider this file:

.. literalinclude:: example/fixtures/test_fixtures_order_autouse_multiple_scopes.py

> Even though nothing in ``TestWithoutC1Request`` is requesting ``c1``, it still

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Even though nothing in ``TestClassWithC1Request`` is requesting ``c1``, it still
```

> executed for the tests inside it anyway:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
is executed for the tests inside it anyway:
```

        def test_name_in_header(self, landing_page, user):
            assert landing_page.header == f"Welcome, {user.name}!"

        def test_sign_out_button(self, landing_page):
            assert landing_page.sign_out_button.is_displayed()

        def test_profile_link(self, landing_page, user):
            profile_href = urljoin(base_url, f"/profile?id={user.profile_id}")
            assert landing_page.profile_link.get_attribute("href") == profile_href

Notice that the methods are only referencing ``self`` in the signature as a
formality. No state is tied to the actual test class as it might be in the
``unittest.TestCase`` framework. Everything is managed by the pytest fixture
system.

Each method only has to request the fixtures that it actually needs without
worrying about order. This is because the **act** fixture is an autouse fixture,
and it made sure all the other fixtures executed before it. There's no more
changes of state that need to take place, so the tests are free to make as many
non-state-changing queries as they want without risking stepping on the toes of
the other tests.

The ``login`` fixture is defined inside the class as well, because not every one

> of these tests will be expecting a successful login, and the **act** may need to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
of the other tests in the module will be expecting a successful login, and the **act** may need to
```
